This website utilizes technologies such as cookies to enable essential site functionality, as well as for analytics, personalization, and targeted advertising. You may change your settings at any time or accept the default settings. You may close this banner to continue with only essential cookies. Privacy Policy
Manage Preferences
Accept All
Reject Non-Essential
Skip to Main Content
Nova
Journals
ASCPT.org
Journal Articles Submit an article
Actions
Clinical and Translational Science
Online ISSN:1752-8062
Print ISSN:1752-8054

Editor-in-Chief: John A. Wagner, MD, PhD

Clinical and Translational Science
Guide to Authors

SCOPE

Clinical and Translational Science (CTS), an official journal of the American Society for Clinical Pharmacology and Therapeutics, aims to improve human health by highlighting original translational science research that helps bridge laboratory discoveries with the diagnosis and treatment of human disease.

Read full aims & scope here. 

CRITERIA FOR PUBLICATION

The principal criteria for publication of papers in CTS are that they:

Report original scientific research (the main results and conclusions must not have been previously published)
Are of outstanding scientific importance
Reach a conclusion of interest to an interdisciplinary readership

 

Contact Information

Clinical and Translational Science
528 North Washington Street
Alexandria, VA 22314
Tel: +1.703.836.6981
Email: cts@ascpt.org

TABLE OF CONTENTS

ARTICLE TYPES


MANUSCRIPT PREPARATION
Organization and Basic Formatting
File Formats Accepted
Text
Title Page
Abstract
Study Highlights
Text
Author Contributions
References
Figure Legends
Tables
Artwork/Figures
Data and Imaging Processing
Supplemental Information
Format of Mechanism of Action Mini Review
Graphical Abstracts


MANUSCRIPT SUBMISSION AND REVIEW
Peer Review Process
Submitting a Revision
Rebuttals


MANUSCRIPT PUBLICATION (AFTER ACCEPTANCE)
Open Access and License to Publish
Fees
Proofreading


ETHICAL POLICIES
Informed Consent and Ethics
Clinical Trials Registry
Conflicts of Interest
Authorship
Wiley’s Name Change Policy
Use of Artificial Intelligence
Confidentiality
Embargo
Communication with the Media
Originality and Plagiarism
Retraction and Corrections Policy
Permissions to Reuse Materials


MANUSCRIPT SUBMISSION CHECKLIST (Useful, but not required, for submission)

Embedding video and audio files

Authors can embed rich media (i.e., video and audio) within their final article.

These files should be submitted with the other submission files on [Research Exchange], using either the “Embedded Video” or “Embedded Audio” file designation.

All embedded rich media will be subject to peer review.

For more detailed instructions, you can read the Embedded Rich Media Author Submission Guidelines.

ARTICLE TYPES ACCEPTED


Content




Type

	

Word Limit*†

	

Abstract/Introduction Word Limit

	

Reference Limit

	

Figure/Table Limit




Article: Substantial novel original research

	

4,000

	

Abstract/250

	

50

	

7




Brief Report: Short and complete reports of novel research findings of high importance to the field. Reports of preliminary experiments are unacceptable. Brief reports should be especially significant and timely and reach a clear conclusion.

	

2,000

	

Abstract/250

	

25

	

2


Review: High-quality, timely reviews and perspectives covering important topics in the entire field of translational medicine


	

8,000

	

Abstract/250

	

100

	

8


Mini-Review: A concise overview of recent advances in the specified subject area (more details about Mechanism of Action Mini-Reviews listed below)
	

2,000-3,000

	

Abstract/250

	

25

	4


Systematic Review/Meta-Analysis: Literature summary using explicit and reproducible methods to systematically search, critically appraise, and synthesize a specific question. Authors should use best reporting practices as outlined by PRISMA guidelines. (prisma-statement.org).

	

8,000*

	

Abstract/250

	

100

	8


Tutorial: Educational article providing practical tutorial on tools, methodologies and approaches in translational medicine. Further details, inlcuding topics and format available here.
Prior tutorials are found here.


	

8,000

	

Abstract/250

	

100

	8


Position Paper: An authoritative statement presenting best practices or an arguable opinion regarding a complex translational or clinical science issue


	

2,000-3,000

	

Abstract/250

	

25

	4
Clinical Trial in Progress: Substantial novel original research protocols (no results reported)	

6,000-8,000

	Abstract/250	

25

	

7




Perspective: Shorter pieces designed to give the author's perspective on current and emerging topics of importance to the development of clinical and translational science

	

1,600

	Introduction/75	

10

	

2




Commentary: Typically highlights findings of a paper in the same issue, presented in a wider scientific and clinical context (By invitation only)

	

1,600

	

Introduction/75

	

10

	

2




Book Review



	

700

	n/a	

0

	

0




Letters to the Editor: Letters must be submitted within 6 months of publication of the subject article. A Letter to the Editor must reference the original source, and a Response to Letter must reference the Letter to the Editor in the first few paragraphs. Letters to the Editor can use an arbitrary title, but a Response must cite the title of the Letter: e.g., Response to [title of Letter]

	

400

	

n/a

	

5

	1

*If the word count exceeds the posted limit, please provide overage justification upon submission.
†Limit excludes title page, abstract/introduction, references, acknowledgements, tables, and figures.


MANUSCRIPT PREPARATION

Organization and Basic Formatting

Please ensure that the manuscript reflects current scientific English, reflecting proper grammar, usage and readability.   If you feel your manuscript would benefit from copy editing, please consider using a technical copy editing or language editing service. Wiley Publishing offers editing services, as do many other providers.

The following are preferred, but not required for submission to CTS:

Font

	

12-point, Times New Roman or 10-point, Arial




Line Spacing

	

Double-spaced throughout




Margins

	

One inch (2.5 cm)




Page Size

	

Letter (8 ½ x 11) inches




Page Numbers

	

Yes




Line Numbers

	

Preferred


File Formats Accepted

Cover letter

	

.doc, .docx, .pdf




Manuscript body

	

.doc, .docx




Tables

	

.doc, .docx




Figures

	

.pdf, .tiff, .eps,




Videos

	

.mp4, .mov

 

TEXT

Research manuscripts (including brief reports, clinical trials in progress, and systematic reviews) should include the following sections:

Title page
Abstract
Study Highlights
Introduction. This section should provide sufficient background information supporting the rationale of the study and the hypothesis being tested in the paper. It should state the aim of the work and the importance of the experimental paradigm such that it is clear to the readers
Methods (must contain IRB or IACUC approval: see Informed Consent and Ethics)
Results
Discussion. Conclusions drawn from the results presented are included in this section. Whereas speculative discussion is allowed, it must be identified as such and be based on the data presented. The discussion should also include a thorough description of limitations
Acknowledgements
Author Contributions statement
References
Figure Legends
Tables
Supplementary Material titles (if included)

Reviews, commentaries, tutorials, position papers, and perspectives may use the following:

Title page
75-word introduction (no references)
Text with appropriate headings as chosen by the authors
Acknowledgements
References
Figure Legends
Tables
Supplementary material titles (if included)

Mechanism of action mini reviews follow the organization described below.

Title Page

Must include:

Complete manuscript title;
All authors’ full names and affiliations
Name, address, telephone number, and email address for corresponding author
Conflict of Interest statement (Each author must disclose and describe any involvement, financial or otherwise, that might potentially bias their work);
Funding information (This should include sources of support, including federal and industry support);
Keywords

May include (preferred)

A short summary of word count, abstract word count if applicable, number of references, and number of figures/tables, against guide to authors requirements for the particular article type;
If the work has previously been presented, the name, place, and date of meeting(s)


Abstract

See above for article types that require a 250-word introduction and those that require a 75-word introduction.
References should not appear in the abstract.
Do not include headers in the abstract


Study Highlight Questions

Original Research Articles (including brief reports, systematic reviews, and clinical trials in progress) should include a Study Highlights section after the Discussion in the manuscript text. The highlights section should include and answer each of the questions below. The entire section should be under 280 words.

What is the current knowledge on the topic?
What question did this study address?
What does this study add to our knowledge?
How might this change clinical pharmacology or translational science?


Methods

The methods section in the paper should be detailed enough to enable readers to accurately reproduce the results as well as be able to evaluate the robustness of the reported methods.

The experimental methods must be described in detail for all new methods, including details regarding analytical validation and quality control. Modified and routinely used methods should be succinct and include relevant original method citations. Experimental descriptions should include the name, city, state or country information of the commercial suppliers for chemicals, reagents, kits and equipment.

Refer to drugs and therapeutic agents by their accepted generic or chemical name, and do not abbreviate them (a proprietary name may be given only with the first use of the generic name). Code names should be used only when a generic name is not yet available. If a generic name is not yet available for small molecule drugs, the chemical name and a figure giving the chemical structure of the drug or reference to the chemical structure should be given. An antibody drug should be described as IgG1, IgG4, etc. with a description of unique amino acid backbone or glycosylation. For other macromolecule drugs the paper should include a description of unique structural features likely to impact pharmacology and/or pharmacokinetics. If a generic name is not available, and the molecular structure of the drug remains proprietary, please provide the rationale for omission of structural information in the cover letter upon submission. 
Reagents and materials: Relevant information like source, catalog, and batch information should be provided for all reagents and materials. For cell lines Include source, authentication and mycoplasma contamination status. Primary cell cultures or tissues from humans or animals must include the gender or in cases where gender cannot be ascertained, the method should specifically state so.  For antibodies, include source, characteristics, dilution and validation status.
Animals: Include source, species, strain, sex, age, and husbandry. For genetically modified animals, include citations for original derivations and specify inbreeding and strain characteristics. Authors must confirm that the studies have been carried out in accordance with the Guide for the Care and Use of Laboratory Animals by the NIH and Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee approval must be cited in the Methods section of the text.
Flow cytometry: The authors are encouraged to refer to “Minimum Information about a flow cytometry experiment (MIFlowCyt) standard” and report as per the guidelines set forth in this standard.
Clinical Studies: Research projects involving human subjects require concordance with the Declaration of Helsinki and approval by an Institutional Review Board (IRB). A copy of the IRB approval letter or certificate must be included with the submission. If the IRB has exempted the research from review, a copy of the letter of exemption must be included with the submission. When reporting experiments on human subjects, indicate whether the procedures were in accordance with the ethical standards of the responsible committee on human experimentation or with the Helsinki Declaration of 1975 (as revised in 1983). If there has been no IRB review of the study, please indicate in the cover letter. In such situations, the manuscript will be reviewed to determine if IRB review should have been conducted. The result of this review may determine whether the manuscript will be considered for publication. If applicable, the IRB name, protocol approval number and date must be mentioned in the Methods section of all manuscripts. The following considerations must also be included in the description of clinical studies:
When applicable, authors should provide the details of the trial registration.
When reporting randomized control trials, authors must provide a CONSORT flow diagram and are strongly encouraged to refer to the CONSORT guidelines for reporting.
The authors should explicitly include the detailed inclusion and exclusion criteria and the demographics of the participants.
In all phase 1 clinical studies, including First-in-Human studies, include a complete listing of all adverse events by de-identified participant for each study. This supplemental table should list each participant with a consistent identifier not associated with their personal identifying information (for example, use allocation number), individual adverse event, and any other relevant information (for example, dose, placebo versus active).
Statistical Analysis. Authors are required to provide details of any statistical package or program employed for statistical analysis. This should include details of which tests, test options, and programs (with full version number) were employed. Technical and biological replicates should be clearly defined. Reliability from technical replicates can be provided as a coefficient of variation but only a single value from these technical replicates should be included in the sample size and statistical analysis (e.g., 8 samples run in triplicate is n = 8 not n = 24). Define the level of probability used as the threshold for statistical significance and do not vary it when presenting results with varying levels of significance. Exact p values can be reported but are not necessary. The use of parametric tests should include a statement attesting to the normality of the data. Whenever possible, include a priori power calculations. Authors should include the mechanism used to correct for multiple statistical comparisons (Bonferroni, False Discovery Rate, etc.) and the threshold for significance.
Artificial intelligence modalities and large language models should not be used as the sole analytical instrument for the proposed analyses. The statistical methods should be detailed enough to allow for reproducibility.
Data Reporting and Availability: Authors are required to supply sufficient technical details (including example model code and datasets) as supplementary information to allow readers to replicate key modeling and simulation steps described in the main article.
Clinical and Translational Science encourages that data supporting the results in the paper be archived in an appropriate public repository. Data deposition is encouraged for nucleic acid and protein sequencing, genotype arrays and genotype-phenotype data. Appropriate databases for genomic data include dbGaP and the Sequence Read Archive. Authors should refer to the NIH data sharing guidelines and Genomic Data Sharing policy that outline the data deposit guidelines as well as resources about biomedical data sharing repositories. Whenever possible, clinical data should be publicly available in a relevant data sharing repository such as clinicaltrials.gov, ClinicalStudyDataRequest, Project Data Sphere, SOAR, Vivli, or the YODA Project. If not deposited in a public database, then all data should be available from the authors.
Authors should comply with the guidelines outlined in MIAME (Minimum Information About a Microarray Experiment) and MINSEQE (Minimum Information About a Next-generation Sequencing Experiment) for reporting microarray or sequencing study. The associated dataset should be deposited in appropriate databases like Gene Expression Omnibus, ArrayExpress or others.
Whenever possible the scripts and other programs used to generate the analyses presented in the paper should also be publicly archived. Exceptions may be granted at the discretion of the editor for sensitive information such as human subject data. Authors are expected to provide a data accessibility statement, including a link to the repository they have used, to accompany their paper.
Standards of reporting. The authors are strongly encouraged to refer to the Equator Network, a comprehensive searchable library of reporting guidelines for various types of studies related to health research including but not limited to randomized trials, observational studies, systematic reviews, diagnostic and prognostic studies, biomarkers, clinical and preclinical studies etc.


Results

This section contains the experimental data, typically presented in figures or tables. There should be no duplication of information contained in figures or tables with that in the text. Figures and tables should contain a minimum of four values. Data should be presented in a quantitative manner where possible, and descriptive statistical measures should be reported. The use of subheadings that describe the findings is strongly encouraged. Similar language in subheadings and figure titles will improve clarity. Do not interpret or discuss the data reported in the Results section.

Please refer to recently reported guidelines on appropriate representation and analysis of experimental pharmacology data. Reporting of animal data should follow the ARRIVE guidelines. Follow PRISMA guidelines for systematic reviews.

In the presentation of results, briefly describe what was measured and state whether a given experiment was planned to test a specific hypothesis or was exploratory. Report the difference or ratio between means with confidence intervals so that the reader can evaluate the effect size and the precision of the measurements. If any data were not included in the analysis, the authors should define the criteria used to exclude outliers, state whether these criteria were predefined, and report the number of data points or experiments that were removed. Report the name of each statistical test used and the sample size for each group included in the analysis. If possible, report an exact p-value in the text. Avoid the use of the word ‘significant’ in your description of results. All data that are used to draw conclusions from your study must be available for consideration during the review of your manuscript and available to the larger scientific community following publication in Clinical and Translational Science. Where appropriate, authors should consider inclusion of raw data in supplemental files.


Author Contributions Statement

Original Research Articles (including brief reports, systematic reviews, and clinical trials in progress) require an Author Contributions section before the References. Note that the following 4 roles must be included:

Wrote the manuscript
Designed the research
Performed the research
Analyzed the data

You may also include the role "contributed new reagents/analytical tools" where applicable. No other roles are allowed. Please see the below example:

A.B.C., D.E., and X.Y.Z. wrote the manuscript; A.B.C. designed the research; A.B.C. and D.E. performed the research; A.B.C. analyzed the data; A.B.C. and X.Y.Z. contributed new reagents/analytical tools.


References

The reference list should contain the references in the order in which they are cited in the text. Citations included in tables/figures count toward the maximum references allowed for the article type and must be included in the reference list. Tables created solely of references are not permitted.

Only published works, as well as manuscripts in press, should be included in the reference list; articles that are submitted or in preparation should be referred to as “unpublished data” in the text. For publications in the reference list, all authors should be included up to a maximum of six authors, and the first three authors should be given, followed by ‘et al.’ for manuscripts with more than six authors. Titles of cited articles are required for all article types. Journal names are italicized and abbreviated (without periods after each abbreviated word). For book citations, the publisher and city of publication are required; include the country (and state for US) for lesser-known cities or where any ambiguity is possible (e.g., John Wiley & Sons, Hoboken, New Jersey, USA, 2003; MIT Press, Cambridge, Massachusetts, USA).

Examples follow.

Journal Articles:

Young BE, Ong SW, Kalimuddin S, et al. Epidemiologic features and clinical course of patients infected with SARS-Cov2 in Singapore. JAMA. 2020;323:1488-1494.
Zhou Y, Han T, Chen J, Hou C, Hua L, He S. Clinical and autoimmune characteristics of severe and clinical cases of COVID-19. Clin Transl Sci. 2020;13:1077-1086.

Website:

Rosenthal S, Chen R, Hadler S. The safety of acellular pertussis vaccine vs whole-cell pertussis vaccine [abstract]. Arch Pediatr Adolesc Med [serial online]. 1996; 150:457-460. http://www.ama-assn.org/sci-pubs/journals/archive/ajdc/voL150/no-5/abstract/htm. Accessed November 10, 1996.
International Society for Infectious Diseases. ProMED-mail website. http://www.promedmail.org. Accessed April 29, 2004.
Sullivan D. Major search engines and directories. SearchEngineWatch website. http://www.searchenginewatch.com/links/article.php/2156221. Updated April 28, 2004. Accessed December 6, 2005.

Books:

Sherlock S, Dooley J. Diseases of the Liver and Biliary System. 9th ed. Oxford, England: Blackwell Scientific Publications; 1993.

Articles in books:

Nahas GG, Goldfrank LR. Marijuana. In: Goldfrank LR, Flomenbaum NE, Lewin NA, Weisman RS, Howland MA, Hoffman RS, eds.
Goldfrank’s Toxicologic Emergencies. 5th ed. Norwalk, CT: Appleton & Lange; 1994:889-898.

Guidance Documents:

US Food and Drug Administration. (2023). Clinical pharmacology considerations for antibody-drug conjugates guidance for industry: guidance for industry.

Figure Legends

Each figure legend should have a brief title that reflects the entire figure. Authors are encouraged to use the subheadings from the Results section of the manuscript for figure titles to improve readability. Descriptions of individual panels follow the title. Figure legends should be succinct but must include enough information to allow the figure to be understandable without reference to the text. Figure legends must include: 1) an explanation of the graph/image components; 2) a very brief overview of relevant methods; and 3) a short summary of results. Details regarding sample size, biological and technical replicates, data transformation or normalization, and the statistical analysis used should be included in the legends.


Tables

Data presented in table format should be understandable without reference to the text and should not duplicate information included in the text. All tables should include a title that describes the entire dataset represented. Footnotes should be used to define abbreviations, to denote any data transformations or normalization, and to indicate statistical tests. Quantitative data in tables should include statistical measures of variance (e.g., standard deviation).


Artwork/Figures

Data must be displayed in figures in the most transparent manner possible. Please review a Clinical and Translational Science tutorial on graphing data for guidelines on proper data representation. Ideally, data should be presented as scatter plots with a mean and standard deviation indicated by lines. In some cases, an interquartile range might be an appropriate substitute for standard deviation. Standard errors should not be reported since they quantify precision, not variability. For large data sets, violin plots represent the spread of the data and are generally less cluttered than scatter plots. Box and whisker plots might be useful for certain types of data but cannot show bimodal distributions. Bar graphs should be avoided since they can be misleading when only the mean and standard deviation are represented.

Figures should be numbered consecutively in the order of first citation in the text. Figures should be uploaded separately as individual files. Composite figures should be submitted preassembled. Figure legends should be brief and specific (see detailed instructions above) and should appear after the Reference section in the manuscript text.

Minimum resolutions:

Halftone images, 300 dpi (dots per inch)
Color images, 300 dpi saved as CMYK
Consider color schemes that maintain high contrast and are distinguishable by individuals with color vision deficiencies
Images containing text, 400 dpi
Line art, 1,000 dpi

Sizes:

Figure width – single image 86 mm (should be able to fit into a single column of the printed journal)
Figure width – multi-part image 178 mm (should be able to fit into a double column of the printed journal)
Text size
8 point (should be readable after reduction – avoid large type or thick lines); line width between 0.5 and 1 point


Data and Image Processing

Authors must keep data and image processing to a minimum and ensure that final figures accurately reflect the original data. Authors should review “Guidelines for Best Practices in Image Processing” from the Office of Research Integrity" for detailed information. All processing should be transparent and follow these guidelines:

Alterations must be applied to the entire image and must not obscure, eliminate, or misrepresent anything in the original image. In cases where this is not possible (e.g., alteration of a single color channel in multiple channel microscopy images), alterations must be explained in the figure legend.
Removal of lanes from gels and blots must be noted in the figure legends.
If data from multiple gels and blots are combined into a single figure, this must be denoted both in the image (with a line or blank space between the individual images) and within the figure legend.
Individual images should only be used in a single figure. Exceptions include data that describe different aspects of the same experiment across different figures. If an image is used in multiple figures, this should be clearly justified in the figure legend.

Image Manipulation

The editorial team of Clinical and Translational Science will review all figures in manuscripts considered for publication for evidence of manipulation. Authors should retain their unprocessed data and metadata files, as editors may request them to aid in manuscript evaluation. The detection of any features not consistent with the guidelines described above are grounds for rejection and may constitute misconduct. Suspected misconduct may be reported to the authors’ institution(s) and funder(s).

Supplemental Information

Supplementary information is peer-reviewed material directly relevant to the conclusion of an article that cannot be included in the printed version owing to space or format constraints. It is posted on the journal’s website and linked to the article online; it may include data files, graphics, videos, or extensive tables. The printed article must be complete and self-explanatory without the supplementary information.

Use the following naming structure for your supplementary figures and tables: Figure S1 and Table S1, etc. The captions should be placed within the corresponding supplementary figure/table file. Files of supplementary references without accompanying text are not allowed.

Authors should ensure that supplementary files are supplied in their final format at submission, as they are not copyedited and will appear online exactly as submitted. We recommend no more than 8 supplementary files. You may combine figures and tables into one file. For instance, if you have four (4) supplementary tables and five (5) supplementary figures, all 9 may be uploaded in one (1) Word or PDF document.

Individual files should not exceed 10 MB. Questions about the submission or preparation of supplementary information should be directed to the editorial office.

Supplementary figures and tables must be provided as PDF, DOC, DOCX, Excel, TIFF, or EPS files. Images should be high resolution and not exceed 640 x 480 pixels.
Supplementary text must be provided in DOC, DOCX, or PDF files.
Video files can be in Quick Time (.mov), or MPEG (.mpg) format. For videos, we recommend 480 x 360 pixels as the maximum frame size and a frame rate of 15 frames per second. If applicable to the presentation of the information, use a 256-color palette. Our recommended maximum data rate is 150 KB/s. Seek advice from the editorial office before sending files larger than our maximum size to avoid delays in publication.

Mechanism of Action Mini Reviews

These mini-reviews focus on the mechanism of action of drugs that are first-in-class or those with novel mechanisms of action, their pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic characteristics, and other characteristics following the pre-defined format:

Introduction: Provide an overview of the approved indication, encompassing the drug target and the underlying pathophysiology of the disease.

Drug Regulatory Approval: Detail the stages and status of the drug's regulatory approval.

Mechanism of Action: a key figure for the drug pathway/mechanistic action is required.

Pharmacokinetic/Pharmacodynamic (PK/PD) characteristics: Discuss the PK/PD properties of the drug.

Key Clinical Trials: Summarize the significant clinical trials conducted by the sponsor, mentioning any prospective trials for special populations (e.g., pediatric populations).

Clinical Efficacy and Safety: Summarize the clinical efficacy and safety profiles based on available data.

Future Prospects (Optional): Highlight ongoing clinical trials for other indications related to the same drug, or other drugs under development targeting the same indication or drug target.

Format Requirements: See above for word, reference, figure, and table limits for Mini-Reviews
Title Format: Use the following structure for the title: [Drug generic name or MOA class]: Mechanism of action, clinical, and translational science
Information Box: Please include an information box titled “Clinical & Translational Card for [Drug generic name].” Include the following in this information box

Mechanism of action:Indication (s):
Dosage and administration:
Major Metabolic Pathway (if feasible):
Key PK characteristics: AUC, Cmax, tmax, t1/2


Graphical Abstracts

Graphical abstracts are optional. If you are including a graphical abstract it must be submitted before your final revision. The graphical abstract should be uploaded and designated as such in the eJP submission system. The abstract should represent the scope of the paper and fit the following specifications:

.pdf, .tiff, or .eps file
Aspect ratio of 1.6 (width should be 1.6 times the height)
300 dpi minimum resolution

Avoid graphs and other figures with fine detail due to the relatively small size of this image.

The editors will review the abstract to determine its suitability for inclusion in the final published article (online only)

MANUSCRIPT SUBMISSION AND REVIEW

When you are ready to submit your manuscript, the files can be uploaded through our submission and review website: https://cts.msubmit.net/cgi-bin/main.plex

A checklist of manuscript requirements is available here. This is a helpful guide to review prior to submitting your manuscript but does NOT need to be submitted.

Peer Review Process

All manuscripts will be assessed by the Editor-in-Chief, and, if appropriate, will be sent to an Associate Editor. If the Associate Editor chooses to send the manuscript for external peer review, reviewers will be assigned as noted below:



Article Type

	

Number of External Reviewers




Original Research

	

At least 2




Reviews (includes Mini-Reviews and systematic reviews)

	

At least 2




Tutorials

	

At least 2




Position Papers

	

At least 2




Perspectives

	

At least 1




Commentaries

	

At least 1




Letters/Response Letters/Book Reviews

	

May or may not be externally reviewed

 

Manuscripts will be reviewed for content, originality, importance to the field, appropriateness of statistical analysis, and derivation of conclusions. Authors should note that manuscripts may be returned after initial review by the editorial office if the paper is deemed unlikely to be reviewed favorably by virtue of insufficient interest for Clinical and Translational Science. When sent for review, the outcome may be acceptance with or without revisions, non-acceptance with an opportunity to make revisions for resubmission, or rejection. Peer review in Clinical and Translational Science is single-blind: reviewers and editors will be aware of the authors’ identity but will not disclose their identity to the authors.



Submitting a Revision

Depending on the number of revisions requested, revisions will be returned to the original reviewers, or the editors will conduct the review. New reviewers will be enlisted at the discretion of the editor and will only be added in rare circumstances (for example: new statistical analyses require someone with different expertise). Not all revised manuscripts will be accepted.

All changes made in a revised manuscript must be annotated via Track Changes, or highlight, or different font color. This will help reviewers locate the changes that correspond with your point-by-point response.

Responses to reviewers and editors should be included as a text (.doc or .docx) file with the manuscript files and named response to reviewers.


Rebuttals

On rare occasions, editorial decisions may be re-considered. Authors with serious concerns about potential scientific errors in the review process may send a rebuttal letter to the editor. Only written appeals will be considered. Rejected manuscripts may be resubmitted for consideration only with explicit permission of the Editor-in-Chief. In such cases, the submission will be given a new manuscript number and date of receipt and will be treated as a new manuscript.

MANUSCRIPT PUBLICATION (AFTER ACCEPTANCE)

Open Access and License to Publish

All articles selected for acceptance in CTS will be published open access. Articles will be made freely available immediately upon publication. The formal corresponding author will be able to complete the license agreement on behalf of all authors on the paper.

The following license agreements are available:

Creative Commons Attribution Non-Commercial (CC-BY-NC) license
Creative Commons Attribution-Non-Commercial-NoDerivs (CC-BY-NC-ND) license
Creative Commons Attribution (CC-BY) license (if applicable)

From April 1, 2013, RCUK or Wellcome Trust funded authors will be directed to sign the open access agreement under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution (CC-BY) license in order to be funder compliant. For more information on the terms and conditions of these licenses, please click here.

Fees

The APC can be paid via credit card or by requesting that an invoice be issued. By paying this APC, authors are permitted to post the final, published PDF of their article on a website, institutional repository, or other free public server immediately upon publication.

ASCPT members

	

$3,230




Non-ASCPT members

	

$3,990


Fees are not applicable to invited manuscripts (excludes original research). Please query CTS2@ascpt.org prior to submission to confirm invitation status. APCs are waived for the following article types:vBook Review, Commentary, Editorial, Letter to the Editor, Reply, Response Letter to the Editor

For more information about this Journal's APCs, please visit the Open Access Page.


License to Publish

CTS utilizes the Creative Commons Attribution-Noncommercial-No Derivative Works 3.0 Unported License. The Creative Commons Attribution-Noncommercial-No Derivative Works 3.0 Unported License allows readers to download the article and share it with others as long as they mention the author and link back to the original article. The article cannot be changed in any way or used commercially.


Proofreading

All accepted manuscripts are subject to copyediting to adhere to journal style and eliminate spelling and grammatical errors. After copyediting, manuscripts are typeset, and proofs are created. The corresponding author will receive an e-mail notification (usually about 2-4 weeks after the files have been sent to the publisher) with a link and instructions for accessing page proofs online. Online guidelines are provided within the system. Page proofs should be carefully proofread for any copyediting or typesetting errors. Please answer any copyediting queries listed in the proof.

Important changes in the data are allowed, but authors may be charged for excessive alterations in proof. Authors should not make substantial edits during proofing—the proofing stage is limited to formatting changes only. Proofs must be returned within 48 hours of receipt of the email to avoid publication delays.

Online production tracking is available for your article through Wiley Author Services.

Author Services lets authors track their article – once it has been accepted – through the production process to publication. Authors can check the status of their articles online and choose to receive automated e-mails at key stages of production. The author will receive an e-mail with a unique link that enables them to register and have their article automatically added to the system.

Visit http://authorservices.wiley.com/ for more details on online production tracking and for a wealth of resources including FAQs and tips on article preparation, submission, and more.

ETHICAL POLICIES

CTS staff uses the iThenticate plagiarism detection tool and Morressier Integrity Manager to review manuscripts for potential plagiarism and papermill detection.


Informed Consent and Ethics

Research projects involving human subjects require review and approval by an Institutional Review Board (IRB). When reporting experiments on human subjects, indicate whether the procedures were in accordance with the ethical standards of the responsible committee on human experimentation or with the Helsinki Declaration of 1975 (as revised in 1983). IRB or Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee approval must be cited in the Methods section of the text. If there has been no IRB review of the study, please so indicate in the cover letter. In such situations, the manuscript will be reviewed to determine if IRB review should have been conducted. The result of this review may determine whether or not the manuscript will be considered for publication.


Clinical Trials Registry

Registration in a public trials registry is required for publication in CTS. A clinical trial is defined as any research project that prospectively assigns human subjects to intervention or comparison groups to study the cause-and-effect relationship between a medical intervention and a health outcome. Studies designed for other purposes, including exploring pharmacokinetics or safety and tolerability (e.g., phase I trials) are exempt. Registration must be with a registry that meets the following criteria:

accessible to the public at no charge;
searchable by electronic methods;
open to all prospective registrants free of charge or at minimal cost;
validates registered information;
identifies trials with a unique number; and
includes information on the: a. investigator(s), b. research question or hypothesis, c. methodology, d. intervention and comparisons, e. eligibility criteria, f. primary and secondary outcomes measured, g. date of registration, h. anticipated or actual start date, i. anticipated or actual date of last follow-up, j. target number of subjects, status (anticipated, ongoing or closed), and k. funding source(s).


Examples of registries that meet these criteria include

United States National Library of Medicine;
The International Standard Randomised Controlled Trial Number Registry;
The Cochrane Renal Group Registry;
European Clinical Trials Database

Conflicts of Interest

CTS subscribes to the Uniform Requirements for Manuscripts Submitted to Biomedical Journals established by the International Committee of Medical Journal Editors. These principles require that participants in the peer review and publication process disclose all relationships that could be viewed as presenting a potential conflict of interest. Disclosures must include employment, consultancies, honoraria, stock ownership, stock options, expert testimony, grants received and pending, patents received and pending, royalties, and in-kind contributions. Editors may publish disclosed information if they believe readers will find it important in judging the manuscript. Institutional and personal conflicts of interest must also be declared.


Authorship

Requirements for all categories of articles largely conform to the Uniform Requirements for Manuscripts Submitted to Biomedical Journals, developed by the ICMJE. A manuscript will be considered for publication with the understanding that:

all named authors have agreed to its submission
it is not currently being considered for publication by another journal
if the paper is accepted, it will not subsequently be published in the same or similar form in any language without the consent of publisher

Each author must have contributed sufficiently to the intellectual content of the submission. Any changes to the author list after submission, such as a change in the order of the authors, or the deletion or addition of authors, will follow the guidelines as set out by the Committee on Publication Ethics, COPE. The corresponding author must confirm that they had full access to the data in the study and final responsibility for the decision to submit for publication. The ICMJE recommends that authorship be based on the following 4 criteria:

Substantial contributions to the conception or design or the work; or the acquisition, analysis, or interpretation of data for the work; AND
Drafting the work or revising it critically for important intellectual content; AND
Final approval of the version to be published; AND
Agreement to be accountable for all aspects of the work in ensuring that questions related to the accuracy or integrity of any part of the work are appropriately investigated and resolved.

In addition to being accountable for the parts of the work he or she has done, an author should be able to identify which co-authors are responsible for specific other parts of the work. In addition, authors should have confidence in the integrity of the contributions of their co- authors.

An artificial intelligence may not be listed as an author.

When a large multi-author group has conducted the work, the group ideally should decide who will be an author before the work is started and confirm who is an author before submitting the manuscript for publication. All members of the group named as authors should meet all four criteria for authorship, including approval of the final manuscript, and they should be able to take public responsibility for the work and should have full confidence in the accuracy and integrity of the work of other group authors.

Acquisition of funding, collection of data, or general supervision of the research group alone does not constitute authorship. All persons designated as authors should qualify for authorship, and all those who qualify should be listed. Each author should have participated sufficiently in the work to take public responsibility for appropriate portions of the content.

Contributions by individuals who made direct contributions to the work but do not meet all the above criteria should be noted in the Acknowledgments section of the manuscript. Examples include: a statistician who has consulted on the included statistical tests; a colleague who has edited the document for English clarity, but did not contribute to the content; a photographer or artist who prepared the figures.

Medical writers and industry employees can be contributors and listed as authors if they meet the requirements listed above. Their roles, affiliations, and potential conflicts of interest should be included in the author list or noted in the Acknowledgments with their contribution to the work submitted. Failure to acknowledge these contributors can be considered inappropriate.

Wiley’s Name Change Policy

In cases where authors wish to change their name following publication, Wiley will update and republish the paper and redeliver the updated metadata to indexing services. Our editorial and production teams will use discretion in recognizing that name changes may be of a sensitive and private nature for various reasons including (but not limited to) alignment with gender identity, or as a result of marriage, divorce, or religious conversion. Accordingly, to protect the author’s privacy, we will not publish a correction notice to the paper, and we will not notify co-authors of the change. Authors should contact the journal’s Editorial Office with their name change request. 


Use of Artificial Intelligence (AI)

AI tools cannot be listed as authors, as they cannot be accountable for the work. AI tools may be used in drafting assistance or to help in developing figures and tables. These tools should only be used to improve readability and language. All AI use must be credited, either in the acknowledgements or methods section. Authors remain responsible for all work submitted under their name.


Confidentiality

CTS editors and editorial staff keep confidential all details about a submitted manuscript and do not comment to any outside organization about manuscripts submitted to the journal. After a manuscript is submitted, correspondence with the journal, referees’ reports, and other confidential material, whether or not the submission is eventually published, must not be posted on any website or otherwise publicized without prior permission from CTS. Referees agree to maintain confidentiality of all manuscripts under consideration.


Embargo

CTS does not wish to hinder communication between scientists. For that reason, different embargo guidelines apply to work that has been discussed at a conference or displayed on a preprint server and picked up by the media as a result. (Neither conference presentations nor posting on recognized preprint servers constitute prior publication.) Authors are requested to update any pre-publication versions with a link to the final published article.



Communication with the Media

Authors must not discuss contributions with the media (including other scientific journals) until the publication date. The only exception is in the week before publication, during which contributions may be discussed with the media if authors and their representatives (institutions, funders) clearly indicate to journalists that their contents must not be publicized until the journal’s press embargo has elapsed. Authors will be informed of embargo dates and timings after acceptance for publication of their articles. We reserve the right to halt the consideration or publication of a paper if this condition is broken. From time to time CTS will distribute to a registered list a press release summarizing selected content of the next issue’s publication. Journalists are encouraged to read the full version of any papers they wish to cover, and are given the names of corresponding authors, together with phone numbers and email addresses. They receive access to the full text of papers about a week before publication on a password-protected website, together with other relevant material (for example, an accompanying News and Views article, and any extra illustrations provided by the authors). The content of the press release and papers is embargoed until the time and date clearly stated on the press release. Authors may therefore receive calls or emails from the media during this time; we encourage them to cooperate with journalists so that media coverage of their work is accurate and balanced. Authors whose papers are scheduled for publication may also arrange their own publicity (for instance through their institutional press offices), but they must strictly adhere to our press embargo.


Originality and Plagiarism

A submitted manuscript must be an original contribution not previously published (conference presentations and posting on recognized preprint servers do NOT constitute prior publication), must not be under consideration for publication elsewhere, and, if accepted, must not be reproduced elsewhere without the consent of ASCPT. Although the editors, editorial board, and referees make every effort to ensure the validity of published manuscripts, the final responsibility rests with the authors, not with Clinical & Translational Science, its editors, ASCPT, or Wiley. The journal retains the right to utilize plagiarism detection methods on all submitted manuscripts.

CTS defines major plagiarism as any case involving:

unattributed copying of another person's data/findings, or resubmission of an entire publication under another author's name (either in the original language or in translation), or
verbatim copying of >100 words of original material without indicating that these are a direct quotation from an original work (whether or not the source is cited), unless the text is accepted as widely used or standardized (e.g., the description of a standard technique or statistical analysis)
unattributed use of original, published, academic work, such as the structure, argument or hypothesis/idea of another person or group where this is a major part of the new publication and there is evidence that it was not developed independently.

Minor plagiarism is defined as:

verbatim copying of <100 words without indicating that these are a direct quotation from an original work (whether or not the source is cited), unless the text is accepted as widely used or standardized (e.g., the description of a standard technique or statistical analysis)
close copying (not quite verbatim, but changed only slightly from the original) of significant sections (e.g., >100 words) from another work (whether or not that work is cited).

If CTS suspects a case of plagiarism, we will first contact the authors for clarification. If the authors are unable to sufficiently explain the potential plagiarism, we reserve the right to inform the authors' institutions and funding agencies. If a published article is suspected of plagiarism, we will take the further step of informing our readers, potentially via retraction of the article.

Retraction and Corrections Policy

CTS has a responsibility to correct errors that have previously published. Corrections are published for significant errors at the discretion of the editors. Readers who have identified such an error should send an email to cts@ascpt.org, clearly stating the publication reference, title, author and section of the article, and briefly explaining the error.

Publishable amendments requested by the authors of the publication are represented by a formal online notice in the journal because they affect the publication record and/or the scientific accuracy of published information. Where these amendments concern peer-reviewed material, they fall into one of four categories:

Erratum: Notification of an important error made by the journal that affects the publication record or the scientific integrity of the paper, or the reputation of the authors or the journal.
Corrigendum: Notification of an important error made by the author(s) that affects the publication record or the scientific integrity of the paper, or the reputation of the authors or the journal. All authors must sign corrigenda submitted for publication. In cases where coauthors disagree, the editors will take advice from independent peer-reviewers and impose the appropriate amendment, noting the dissenting author(s) in the text of the published version.
Retraction: Notification of invalid results. All coauthors must sign a retraction specifying the error and stating briefly how the conclusions are affected, and submit it for publication. In cases where coauthors disagree, the editors will seek advice from independent peer reviewers and impose the type of amendment that seems most appropriate, noting the dissenting author(s) in the text of the published version.
Addendum: Notification of a peer-reviewed addition of information to a paper, usually in response to readers’ request for clarification. Addenda are published only rarely and only when the editors decide that the addendum is crucial to the reader’s understanding of a significant part of the published contribution.

Permissions

If a table, figure or any other previously published material is included, the authors must obtain written permission to reproduce the material in both print and electronic formats from the copyright owner and submit it with the manuscript. The original source should be cited in full per the terms and conditions as stated in the permission agreement.

Sign up for email alerts

Enter your email to receive alerts when new articles and issues are published.

Email address
Continue
Journal Metrics
Submit an article
Recommend to a Librarian
More Information
Submit to CPT
Submit to PSP
Submit to CTS
Advertising Information
Institutional Funding
Journal Resources
Call for Papers: Quantitative Medicine
Translational Bytes Blog
Article Publication Charges
Paper of the Month
Definition of Translational Science
Author Guidelines
Call for Papers: Biomarkers
2024 by the numbers
Top 10 2025 citation papers
Top 10 2025 downloaded papers
Top 10 2025 Altmetrics papers
Stay Connected
Follow on X
Like on Facebook
Connect on LinkedIn
Posts by ASCPT_ClinPharm
 Back
About ASCPT
Membership & Events
Contact ASCPT

© 2026 American Society for Clinical Pharmacology and Therapeutics

Additional links
ABOUT WILEY ONLINE LIBRARY
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
About Cookies
Manage Cookies
Accessibility
Wiley Research DE&I Statement and Publishing Policies
HELP & SUPPORT
Contact Us
Training and Support
DMCA & Reporting Piracy
Sitemap
OPPORTUNITIES
Subscription Agents
Advertisers & Corporate Partners
CONNECT WITH WILEY
The Wiley Network
Wiley Press Room

Copyright © 1999-2026 John Wiley & Sons, Inc or related companies. All rights reserved, including rights for text and data mining and training of artificial intelligence technologies or similar technologies.