This website utilizes technologies such as cookies to enable essential site functionality, as well as for analytics, personalization, and targeted advertising. You may change your settings at any time or accept the default settings. You may close this banner to continue with only essential cookies. Privacy Policy
Manage Preferences
Accept All
Reject Non-Essential
Skip to Main Content
Nova
Journals
ASCPT.org
Journal Articles Submit an article
Actions
CPT: Pharmacometrics & Systems Pharmacology

Editor-in-Chief: France Mentré, MD, PhD

CPT: Pharmacometrics & Systems Pharmacology 
Guide to Authors

Manuscript Preparation Guidelines

Content Types | Peer Review Process | Manuscript Format | Open Access Publication

Editorial Policies

Post-Acceptance Information

Criteria for Publication

The principal criteria for publication of papers in PSP are that they:

Report original scientific research (the main results and conclusions must not have been published or submitted elsewhere)
Are of outstanding scientific importance
Reach a conclusion of interest to an interdisciplinary readership
Manuscript Preparation Guidelines

Submissions that do not adhere to the guidelines provided may be returned to the author prior to consideration.

Submit a Manuscript

Content Types


Content




Type

	

Word Limit*†

	

Abstract/Introduction Word Limit

	

Reference Limit

	

Figure/Table Limit




Article: Substantial novel original research

 

	

4,000

	

Abstract/250

	

50

	

7


Review: High-quality, timely reviews and perspectives covering important topics in the entire field of pharmacometrics and systems pharmacology


 

	

8,000

	

Abstract/250

	

100

	

8




Tutorial: Educational article providing practical tutorial on methodologies and approaches in pharmacometrics and systems pharmacology 



	

8,000

	Abstract/250	

100

	

8




Databases:  This article type describes a database that can be utilized by others for further pharmacometrics or systems pharmacology analysis. The database should be freely and readily accessible 

 

	

4,000

	

Abstract/250

	

50

	7


Perspective: Shorter pieces designed to give the author's perspective on current and emerging topics of importance to the development of the disciplines of pharmacometrics and systems pharmacology 

 
	

1,600

	Introduction/75	

10

	2


Commentary: Typically highlights a published article’s findings in a wider scientific and clinical context. By invitation only.

 
	

1,600

	

Introduction/75

	

10

	

2




Letters to the Editor: Letters must be submitted within 6 months of publication of the subject article. A Letter to the Editor must reference the original source, and a Response Letter to the Editor must reference the Letter to the Editor in the first few paragraphs. Letters to the Editor can use an arbitrary title, but a response must cite the title of the Letter: e.g. Response to [title of Letter]

 

	

400

	

n/a

	

5

	1


Mini-Review: A concise overview of recent advances in the specified subject area

	

2,000-3,000

	

Abstract/250

	

25

	4


Systematic Review/Meta-Analysis: Literature summary using explicit and reproducible methods to systematically search, critically appraise, and synthesize a specific question

	

8,000*

	

Abstract/250

	

100

	8


PSP Case Reports: Original research presented as short case reports of model-informed applications in drug development (MIDD), precision dosing, special populations, regulatory assessments Etc.*

	

2,000

	

Abstract/250

	

20

	4


*Suggested section organization: Introduction | Key question | Analysis Plan and Key Assumptions | Results | Impact Assessment | Conclusion




White Paper: An authoritative report to present best practices for addressing complex pharmacometrics and systems pharmacology issues. Interested authors should e-mail proposals to pspeditor@ascpt.org for presubmission review.

PSP encourages the use of the following section headers, as appropriate:

Background | Basic Principles | Impact | Challenges and Controversies | Education and Training | Anticipated Outcomes | Recommendations

*Material that cannot fit within the allowed limit may be submitted as supplementary information.
†Limit excludes title page, abstract/introduction, references, acknowledgements, tables, and figures.

Peer Review Process & Reviewer Recommendations

All manuscripts will be assessed by the Editor-in-Chief, and, if appropriate, will be sent to an Associate Editor and two or more external reviewers. Manuscripts will be reviewed for content, originality, importance to the field, appropriateness of statistical analysis, and derivation of conclusions. Authors should note that manuscripts may be returned after initial review by the editorial office if the paper is deemed unlikely to be reviewed favorably by virtue of insufficient interest for the CPT: Pharmacometrics & Systems Pharmacology readership. When sent for review, the outcome may be acceptance with or without revisions, non-acceptance with an opportunity to make revisions for resubmission, or rejection. Peer review in CPT: Pharmacometrics & Systems Pharmacology is single-blind: reviewers and editors will be aware of the authors' identity, but will not disclose their identity to the authors.

Manuscript Format
General format

Manuscripts must be typed in English and be in a single-column, double-spaced format. All manuscript pages should include page and line numbers.

Title page

Must include:

Complete manuscript title;
All authors’ full names and affiliations;
Name, address, telephone number, and e-mail address for corresponding author;
Conflict of Interest statement (Each author must disclose and describe any involvement, financial or otherwise, that might potentially bias his or her work);
Funding information (This should include sources of support, including federal and industry support);
Keywords.
Text

For contributions that do not require an abstract, introductory paragraphs may contain references to cited work. Articles should consist of the following ordered sections:

Title Page
Abstract
Introduction
Methods (must contain IRB or IACUC approval: see Informed Consent and Ethics)
Results
Discussion
Study Highlights
Graphical Abstracts
Acknowledgements: Medical writers, proofreaders, and editors should not be listed as authors, but acknowledged here.
Author Contributions: A list of each author's contributions. The standard contributions include: Wrote Manuscript, Designed Research, Performed Research, Analyzed Data, and Contributed New Reagents/Analytical Tools.
References
Figure Legends
Supplementary Information Titles
Use of Artificial Intelligence (AI)

AI tools cannot be listed as authors, as they cannot be accountable for the work. AI tools may be used in drafting assistance or to help in developing figures and tables. These tools should only be used to improve readability and language. All AI use must be credited, either in the acknowledgements or methods section. Authors remain responsible for all work submitted under their name.

Study Highlights

Articles should include a Study Highlights section after the Discussion in the manuscript text. The highlights section should include and answer each of the questions below. The entire section, not including the questions, should be under 150 words.

What is the current knowledge on the topic?
What question did this study address?
What does this study add to our knowledge?
How might this change drug discovery, development, and/or therapeutics?
Data/Model Code

Authors are required to supply sufficient technical details (including example model code and datasets) as supplementary information or in a publicly accessible repository to allow readers to replicate the key modeling and simulation steps described in the main article.

CPT: Pharmacometrics & Systems Pharmacology strongly encourages that data supporting the results in the paper will be archived in an appropriate public repository. Whenever possible the scripts and other artifacts used to generate the analyses presented in the paper should also be publicly archived. Exceptions may be granted at the discretion of the editor for sensitive information such as human subject data or the location of endangered species. Authors are expected to provide a data accessibility statement, including a link to the repository they have used, to accompany their paper.

Embedding Video and Audio Files

Authors can embed rich media (i.e., video and audio) within their final article.

These files should be submitted with the other submission files on Research Exchange, using either the "Embedded Video" or "Embedded Audio" file designation.

All embedded rich media will be subject to peer review.

For more detailed instructions, you can read the Embedded Rich Media guidelines.

Graphical Abstracts

Graphical abstracts are optional. If you are including a graphical abstract it must be submitted before your final revision. The graphical abstract should be uploaded and designated as such in the eJP submission system. The abstract should represent the scope of the paper and fit the following specifications:

.pdf, .tiff, or .eps file
Aspect ratio of 1.6 (width should be 1.6 times the height)
300 dpi minimum resolution

Avoid graphs and other figures with fine detail due to the relatively small size of this image.

The editors will review the abstract to determine its suitability for inclusion in the final published article (online only).

Open Access Publication

All articles selected for acceptance in PSP will be published open access. Articles will be made freely available immediately upon publication. The formal corresponding author will be able to complete the license agreement on behalf of all authors on the paper.

The following license agreements are available:

Creative Commons Attribution Non-Commercial (CC-BY-NC) license
Creative Commons Attribution-Non-Commercial-NoDerivs (CC-BY-NC-ND) license
Creative Commons Attribution (CC-BY) license (if applicable)

From April 1, 2013, RCUK or Wellcome Trust funded authors will be directed to sign the open access agreement under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution (CC-BY) license in order to be funder compliant. For more information on the terms and conditions of these licenses, please click here.

Fees

Authors are required to pay an article processing charge (APC) per accepted article. ASCPT members will receive a reduced APC. The APC can be paid via credit card or by requesting that an invoice be issued. By paying this APC, authors are permitted to post the final, published PDF of their article on a website, institutional repository, or other free public server immediately upon publication. For more information on this journal’s APCs, please see the Open Access page.

Fees are not applicable to invited manuscripts (excludes original research). Please query PSP2@ascpt.org prior to submission to confirm invitation status.

Figures

Figures should be numbered consecutively in the order of first citation in the text. Figures and tables must be uploaded separately from the manuscript text. Each figure must be provided as an individual file. Composite figures should be submitted preassembled. Figure legends should be brief and specific and should appear after the Reference section in the manuscript text. Accepted figure files include PDF, TIFF, or EPS. 

Minimum resolutions:
Halftone images, 300 dpi (dots per inch)
Color images, 300 dpi saved as CMYK
Images containing text, 400 dpi
Line art, 1,000 dpi
Sizes:
Figure width – single image 86 mm (should be able to fit into a single column of the printed journal)
Figure width – multi-part image 178 mm (should be able to fit into a double column of the printed journal)
Text size
8 point (should be readable after reduction – avoid large type or thick lines) line width between 0.5 and 1 point
Tables

Tables should be submitted in an editable MS Word DOC or DOCX file. Tables should be numbered consecutively in the order of first citation in the text and multipart tables (Table 1a and 1b) are not allowed. Minimize empty space and restrict the number of characters per row to 130. Supply a brief title for each, but place explanatory matter in the footnotes (not in the heading).

Image Integrity and Standards

Images submitted with a manuscript for review should be minimally processed (for instance, to add arrows to a micrograph). Authors should retain their unprocessed data and metadata files, as editors may request them to aid in manuscript evaluation. If unprocessed data are unavailable, manuscript evaluation may be stalled until the issue is resolved. A certain degree of image processing is acceptable for publication (and for some experiments, fields and techniques is unavoidable), but the final image must correctly represent the original data and conform to community standards. The guidelines below will aid in accurate data presentation at the image processing level; authors must also take care to exercise prudence during data acquisition, where misrepresentation must equally be avoided. Authors should list all image acquisition tools and image processing software packages used. Authors should document key image gathering settings and processing manipulations in the Methods. Images gathered at different times or from different locations should not be combined into a single image, unless it is stated that the resultant image is a product of time-averaged data or a time-lapse sequence. If juxtaposing images is essential, the borders should be clearly demarcated in the figure and described in the legend. The use of touch-up tools, such as cloning and healing tools in Photoshop, or any feature that deliberately obscures manipulations, is to be avoided. Processing (such as changing brightness and contrast) is appropriate only when it is applied equally across the entire image and is applied equally to controls. Contrast should not be adjusted so that data disappear. Excessive manipulations, such as processing to emphasize one region in the image at the expense of others (for example, through the use of a biased choice of threshold settings), is inappropriate, as is emphasizing experimental data relative to the control. When submitting revised final figures, authors may be asked to submit original, unprocessed images.

Supplemental Information

Supplementary information is peer-reviewed material directly relevant to the conclusion of an article that cannot be included in the printed version owing to space or format constraints. It is posted on the journal’s website and linked to the article online; it may include data files, graphics, videos, or extensive tables. The printed article must be complete and self-explanatory without the supplementary information.

Use the following naming structure for your supplementary figures and tables: Figure S1 and Table S1, etc. The captions should be placed within the corresponding supplementary figure/table file. Files of supplementary references without accompanying text are not allowed.

Authors should ensure that supplementary files are supplied in their final format at submission, as they are not copyedited and will appear online exactly as submitted. We recommend no more than 8 supplementary files. You may combine figures and tables into one file. For instance, if you have four (4) supplementary tables and five (5) supplementary figures, all 9 may be uploaded in one (1) Word or PDF document.

Individual files should not exceed 10 MB. Questions about the submission or preparation of supplementary information should be directed to the editorial office.

Supplementary figures and tables must be provided as PDF, DOC, DOCX, Excel, TIFF, or EPS files. Images should be high resolution and not exceed 640 x 480 pixels.
Supplementary text must be provided in DOC, DOCX, or PDF files.
Video files can be in Quick Time (.mov), or MPEG (.mpg) format. For videos, we recommend 480 x 360 pixels as the maximum frame size and a frame rate of 15 frames per second. If applicable to the presentation of the information, use a 256-color palette. Our recommended maximum data rate is 150 KB/s. Seek advice from the editorial office before sending files larger than our maximum size to avoid delays in publication.
Drug Names

Refer to drugs and therapeutic agents by their accepted generic or chemical name, and do not abbreviate them (a proprietary name may be given only with the first use of the generic name). Code names should be used only when a generic name is not yet available (the chemical name and a figure giving the chemical structure of the drug is required). Copyright or trade names of drugs should be capitalized and placed in parentheses after the name of the drug. Names and locations (city and state in United States; city and country outside United States) of manufacturers of drugs, supplies, or equipment cited in a manuscript are required to comply with trademark law and should be provided in parentheses. The official HUGO gene should be indicated in parentheses with the first reference in the paper.

Language Editing

Authors who require editing for language are encouraged to consult language editing services prior to submission.

Permissions

If a table, figure or any other previously published material is included, the authors must obtain written permission to reproduce the material in both print and electronic formats from the copyright owner and submit it with the manuscript. The original source should be cited in full per the terms and conditions as stated in the permission agreement.

References

The reference list should contain the references in the order in which they are cited in the text. Citations included in tables/figures count toward the maximum references allowed for the article type and must be included in the reference list. Tables created solely of references are not permitted.

Only published works, as well as manuscripts in press, should be included in the reference list; articles that are submitted or in preparation should be referred to as “unpublished data” in the text. For publications in the reference list, all authors should be included maximum of 6 authors and first three authors should be given, followed by ‘et al.’ Titles of cited articles are required for all article types. Journal names are italicized and abbreviated (without periods after each abbreviated word). For book citations, the publisher and city of publication are required; include the country (and state for US) for lesser-known cities or where any ambiguity is possible (e.g., John Wiley & Sons, Hoboken, New Jersey, USA, 2003; MIT Press, Cambridge, Massachusetts, USA).

Journal Articles:

Young BE, Ong SW, Kalimuddin S, et al. Epidemiologic features and clinical course of patients infected with SARS-Cov2 in Singapore. JAMA. 2020;323:1488-1494.
Zhou Y, Han T, Chen J, Hou C, Hua L, He S. Clinical and autoimmune characteristics of severe and clinical cases of COVID-19. Clin Transl Sci. 2020;13:1077-1086.

Website:

Rosenthal S, Chen R, Hadler S. The safety of acellular pertussis vaccine vs whole-cell pertussis vaccine [abstract]. Arch Pediatr Adolesc Med [serial online]. 1996; 150:457-460. http://www.ama-assn.org/sci-pubs/journals/archive/ajdc/voL150/no-5/abstract/htm. Accessed November 10, 1996.
International Society for Infectious Diseases. ProMED-mail website. http://www.promedmail.org. Accessed April 29, 2004.
Sullivan D. Major search engines and directories. SearchEngineWatch website. http://www.searchenginewatch.com/links/article.php/2156221. Updated April 28, 2004. Accessed December 6, 2005.

Books:

Sherlock S, Dooley J. Diseases of the Liver and Biliary System. 9th ed. Oxford, England: Blackwell Scientific Publications; 1993.

Articles in books:

Nahas GG, Goldfrank LR. Marijuana. In: Goldfrank LR, Flomenbaum NE, Lewin NA, Weisman RS, Howland MA, Hoffman RS, eds.
Goldfrank’s Toxicologic Emergencies. 5th ed. Norwalk, CT: Appleton & Lange; 1994:889-898.
Contact Information

CPT: Pharmacometrics & Systems Pharmacology 
528 North Washington Street
Alexandria, VA 22314
Tel: +1.703.836.6981
Email: psp@ascpt.org

Sign up for email alerts

Enter your email to receive alerts when new articles and issues are published.

Email address
Continue
Submit an article
Journal Metrics
Stay Connected
Follow on X
Like on Facebook
Connect on LinkedIn
Journal Resources
CiteScore: 6.3
PSPod Podcast
PSPost Blog
Article Publication Charges
Author Guidelines
ASCPT Member Access
More Information
Submit to CPT
Submit to PSP
Submit to CTS
Advertising Information
Institutional Funding
Posts by ASCPT_ClinPharm
 Back
About ASCPT
Membership & Events
Contact ASCPT

© 2026 American Society for Clinical Pharmacology and Therapeutics

Additional links
ABOUT WILEY ONLINE LIBRARY
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
About Cookies
Manage Cookies
Accessibility
Wiley Research DE&I Statement and Publishing Policies
HELP & SUPPORT
Contact Us
Training and Support
DMCA & Reporting Piracy
Sitemap
OPPORTUNITIES
Subscription Agents
Advertisers & Corporate Partners
CONNECT WITH WILEY
The Wiley Network
Wiley Press Room

Copyright © 1999-2026 John Wiley & Sons, Inc or related companies. All rights reserved, including rights for text and data mining and training of artificial intelligence technologies or similar technologies.